Welcome back as we've discussed in the introduction as our applications go from simple tax based web
sites to the video Web sites like YouTube or evening games you can imagine that we are now shipping
more and more Javascript than ever before to our client or our browser and you remember how an application
looked when we worked with re-act right on our DML page.
We just had one simple element.
We had the diff tagged with an idea of root and re-act just attach itself to that Id root element and
then rendered all the DML through re-act elements just through that one div tag in HDMI.
And this is how client side rendered apps work.
You see unlike server side rendering where the server responds with a fully loaded ASTM all page that's
ready to be rendered to the user with client side rendering it gets a pretty bare bones a shemale page
that links to your javascript files which have to be executed and downloaded.
We see over here that we first request our email and while we do that we have a loading spinner or a
blank page as we wait for something to be rendered on the browser.
Once the DML file arrives we notice some javascript files.
And because there is nothing really to be rendered we wait for the javascript files to be downloaded.
We then wait for them to be evaluated and then finally while we're still watching this loading screen
once all that is done our page loads up and becomes interactive and we can see it.
Now the one benefit of this although we do have to wait a bit is that once this page becomes interactive
if you were to click on a link on this page to load more content the browser doesn't have to make another
request to the server you're rendering items within the browser through re-act through logic through
javascript so using javascript it's going to load new content and new libraries and new views to the
webpage.
And this is much faster since you're only loading a very small section of the new page.
So for example if we had a menu bar at the top that doesn't need to be rendered we can just rearrange
or whatever.
Perhaps the profile is underneath.
Just like if you remember in our Product Hunt example only parts of the web page get loaded.
And that's a lot faster now.
There's also a problem here right with client side rendering you sometimes have these blank pages where
people just put loading spinner's or a blank page while we wait for this initial rendering to happen.
Let's see what server side rendering would look like with server side rendering things look a little
bit different.
Immediately you can see that with SSR it renders a lot faster on the initial request compared to the
Klein side rendered which we had to wait a little bit more because our server now responds with a fully
rendered page so that we can display something to the user while the javascript gets downloaded and
evaluated in the background.
But you do also notice that our page doesn't become interactive until this point until these two steps
by javascript get run.
So we still have the same interactivity point.
The only difference is that to the user this web site appears a lot faster because it displays things
on the page a lot faster.
They have less time watching the loading spinner.
All right well there is our decision.
Looking at these two it's clear we need to do server side rendering let's scrap all our client side
rendering projects everything we have learned up until now its all a waste.
All right hold on.
Thats not actually complete or right as with anything.
There are pros and cons to everything.
And before we get into when you do want to do client side rendering when youd want to do server side
rendering Lets take a break because I'm sure you have a question now can we turn a single page application
into a server side rendered application.
Can we make our Roble friends up into a server side or rendered map is that even possible.
Because you can see how easy it is to do if you just had it simple a stream of pages.
But if you had a dynamic web app like a single page application then it might be a little bit more difficult.
So I'll see in the next video.